PACKAGE LEAFLET: INFORMATION FOR THE USER
PLAUNAC 10 mg, 20 mg, 40 mg film-coated tablets
Olmesartan medoxomil

Please read this leaflet carefully before taking this medicine because it contains important information for you.

Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.

If you have any questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.

This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not give it to others, even if their symptoms are the same as yours, because it could be dangerous.

If you experience any side effects, including those not listed in this leaflet, please contact your doctor or pharmacist (see section 4).

Contents of this leaflet:

What PLAUNAC is and what it is used for
PLAUNAC belongs to a group of medicines called angiotensin II receptor antagonists. They lower blood pressure by relaxing blood vessels.
PLAUNAC is used to treat high blood pressure (also called "arterial hypertension"). High blood pressure can damage blood vessels in organs such as the heart, kidney, brain, and eye. In some cases, this can cause heart attacks, heart or kidney failure, strokes, or blindness. Usually, high blood pressure has no symptoms. It is important to monitor your blood pressure to prevent damage.
High blood pressure can be controlled with medicines like PLAUNAC tablets. Your doctor has probably also recommended some lifestyle changes to help reduce your blood pressure (for example, losing weight, quitting smoking, reducing alcohol intake, and reducing salt in your diet). Your doctor may also have encouraged you to exercise regularly, such as walking or swimming. It is important that you follow your doctor's advice.

What you need to know before taking PLAUNAC

Do not take PLAUNAC:

if you are allergic to olmesartan medoxomil or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6);

if you are more than three months pregnant (it is better to avoid PLAUNAC tablets even in the early stages of pregnancy), see the section “Pregnancy and breastfeeding”;

if you have yellowing of the skin or eyes (jaundice) or problems with bile flow from the gallbladder (bile duct obstruction, for example gallstones);

if you have diabetes or impaired kidney function and are being treated with a medicine that lowers blood pressure containing aliskiren.

Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor before taking PLAUNAC.
Consult your doctor if you are taking any of the following medicines used to treat high blood pressure:

an "ACE inhibitor" (for example enalapril, lisinopril, ramipril), especially if you have kidney problems related to diabetes;

aliskiren.
Your doctor may check your kidney function, blood pressure, and electrolyte levels (such as potassium) regularly.
See also the section "Do not take PLAUNAC".
Consult your doctor if you have any of the following health problems:

Kidney problems.

Liver diseases.

Heart failure or problems with heart valves or heart muscle.

Severe vomiting, diarrhea, treatment with high doses of diuretics, or if you are on a low salt diet.

Increased potassium levels in the blood.

Problems with the adrenal glands.
Inform your doctor if you have severe and prolonged diarrhea with significant weight loss. Your doctor will evaluate your symptoms and decide whether to continue this antihypertensive treatment.
As with any medicine that lowers blood pressure, excessive lowering of blood pressure in patients with circulatory problems of the heart or brain could lead to a heart attack or stroke. Your doctor will carefully monitor your blood pressure.
You must inform your doctor if you think you are pregnant (or might become pregnant). PLAUNAC is not recommended at the beginning of pregnancy and must not be taken if you are more than three months pregnant because it can cause serious harm to the baby if taken during this period (see the section "Pregnancy and breastfeeding").

Industrial property rights and data patent protection related to the API

Children and adolescents
PLAUNAC is not recommended for children and adolescents under 18 years of age.

Other medicines and PLAUNAC
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken, or might take any other medicines.
In particular, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking any of the following:

Other medicines that lower blood pressure may increase the effect of PLAUNAC. Your doctor may need to adjust the dose and/or take other precautions.

If you are taking an ACE inhibitor or aliskiren (see also the sections "Do not take PLAUNAC" and "Warnings and precautions").

Potassium supplements, potassium-containing salt substitutes, diuretics, or heparin (a blood thinner). Using these medicines with PLAUNAC may increase potassium levels in the blood.

Lithium (a medicine used to treat mood swings and certain types of depression) used together with PLAUNAC can increase lithium toxicity. If you need to take lithium, your doctor will monitor your lithium levels in the blood.

Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs, medicines used to reduce pain, swelling, and other inflammation symptoms, including arthritis) used together with PLAUNAC may increase the risk of kidney failure and reduce the effectiveness of PLAUNAC.

Colesevelam hydrochloride, a medicine that reduces blood cholesterol levels, which may decrease the effect of PLAUNAC. Your doctor may advise you to take PLAUNAC at least 4 hours before colesevelam hydrochloride.

Some antacids (used for indigestion) may slightly reduce the effectiveness of PLAUNAC.

Elderly
If you are over 65 years old and your doctor decides to increase your dose of olmesartan medoxomil to 40 mg per day, your blood pressure must be regularly monitored by your doctor to prevent it from dropping too low.

Patients of Black ethnicity
As with other similar medicines, the blood pressure-lowering effect of PLAUNAC is somewhat reduced in patients of black ethnicity.

PLAUNAC with food and drink
PLAUNAC can be taken with or without food.

Pregnancy and breastfeeding
You must inform your doctor if you think you are pregnant (or might become pregnant). Usually, your doctor will advise you to stop taking PLAUNAC before pregnancy or as soon as you find out you are pregnant and will recommend another medicine instead of PLAUNAC. PLAUNAC is not recommended at the beginning of pregnancy and must not be taken if you are more than three months pregnant as it can cause serious harm to the baby if taken after the third month of pregnancy.

Breastfeeding
Inform your doctor if you are breastfeeding or planning to breastfeed.
PLAUNAC is not recommended for women who are breastfeeding, and your doctor may choose another treatment if you want to breastfeed, especially if your baby is newborn or premature.

If you are pregnant, suspect you might be, planning a pregnancy, or breastfeeding, ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine.

Driving and using machines
You may experience drowsiness or dizziness during treatment for high blood pressure.
If this happens, do not drive or operate machinery until the symptoms disappear.
Ask your doctor for advice.

PLAUNAC contains lactose
This medicine contains lactose (a type of sugar). If your doctor has told you that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor before taking this medicine.